# data-warehouse-redshift

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As the data engineer team, we've been tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts the data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for the analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to. We'll be able to test the database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to us by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare our results with their expected results.


# Project Description

In this project, we'll leverage data warehouses and AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. To complete the project, we will need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.

# Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```

And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

`{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}`

# Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset we'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```

1. Run `create_tables.py` to create the database and tables.

2. Run `etl.py` to process the entire datasets.
